Secretaguogues

CIC
Amitizia - Lubiprostone (30% have nausea) - Cl2 channels - BID dosing take with food
Linzess - Linaclotide - cGMP - 145 mcg/day (also 72 mcg)
Trulance - Plecanatide (Cl2) - for IBS C and CIC - stimulate GC receptors (? reduction in abd pain)
Motegrity - Prucalopride - 5HT4 receptors 2mg/day, if renal issues consider 1 mg/day

IBS-C
Amitizia - Lubiprostone (30% have nausea) - Cl2 channels - BID dosing take with food
Linzess - Linaclotide - cGMP - 290 mcg/day
Trulance - Plecanatide (Cl2) - for IBS C and CIC - stimulate GC receptors (? reduction in abd pain)
Ibsrela - Tenapanor - INHbits Na/NH3 exchangers ? HyperK in CKD, 50 mg BID before breakfast/dinner (not for pregnancy)

Opiod Constipation
Amitiza

Balloon Explusion > 1 minute abnromal
If BET normal but Abnormal Mano Patterns but no DD
then Defecography can help, can help distinguish anatomical vsus dssynergia

A balloon expulsion test (BET) evaluates the ability to expel a water-filled balloon within 1 minute while seated on a commode; therefore, balloon expulsion in 30 seconds is normal. During normal defecation, relaxation of the anal canal and perineal descent of 2-4 cm during bear-down would be expected. During normal bear-down, widening of the anorectal angle to allow for passage of stool would be expected on defecography. Narrowing of the anorectal angle would be seen during abnormal contraction of the puborectalis muscle and would therefore suggest dyssynergia.

Sacral Nerve Stimulation - for Incontinence with no tx on ARM results

RAIR + = NO HIRSCH, normal relaxation of IAS


SIBO
Glucose better than Lactulose
> 2 hr 20 ppm rise in Hydrogen

Proctalgia Fugax - treatment is reassurance

Abdominophrenic dyssynergia (APD) is a functional gastrointestinal disorder characterized by an abnormal brain-gut reflex where the respiratory diaphragm contracts and the abdominal wall muscles relax during digestion, contrary to the normal response of diaphragm relaxation and abdominal muscle contraction.
 This paradoxical movement leads to abdominal distention, bloating, and discomfort, often described as feeling like one is constantly pregnant, and is a key contributor to symptoms in disorders of gut-brain interaction such as irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and functional dyspepsia.
 The condition is not due to increased intra-abdominal gas or contents but results from a disrupted viscerosomatic reflex, with studies showing diaphragmatic descent and anterior abdominal wall protrusion during distension episodes.
 While the exact cause remains unclear, it is thought to involve dysregulation of the gut-brain axis, and treatment options include diaphragmatic breathing exercises, cognitive behavioral therapy, gut-directed hypnotherapy, and biofeedback, though standardized protocols are still lacking

Trail Diaphragmatic Breathing vs TCA
https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC9810002/
