> 60 with no onset dyspepsia EGD should be done
For younger patients H Pylori Testing is Warranted first

Belching:


Notably, supragastric belching stops during sleep, distraction, or when the patient speaks.

High-resolution esophageal manometry, if combined
with impedance monitoring and impedance pH monitoring,
differentiates gastric and supragastric belching and aerophagia. In gastric belching, spontaneous transient relaxation
of the lower esophageal sphincter is followed by air transport from the stomach through the esophagus.

Conversely, in aerophagia, air enters into
the esophagus through swallowing, leading to the opening
of the UES. 

Structural
causes of belching include hiatal and paraesophageal
hernias and, in patients post Nissen fundoplication, an
impaired gastric accommodation can lead to symptoms of
belching and dyspepsia.

Belching is different from aerophagia. With aerophagia, excessive swallowing of air increases intragastric
and intestinal gas. This leads to symptoms of bloating,
distention, and, less often, belching.12 Note that in aerophagia, excess air moves to the intestines and colon,
therefore, the symptom of flatulence is reported
commonly, with bloating as a main manifestation rather
than excessive belching alone.

The most effective suggested treatment for supragastric
belching has been behavioral strategies, which include
helping the patient become aware of the reasons for their
symptoms.18 Diaphragmatic breathing (see video: https://
romedross.video/3azBfEE) increases vagal tone, inducing
relaxation and reducing stress response, and is a treatment
option for supragastric belching

https://www.gastrojournal.org/action/showPdf?pii=S0016-5085%2823%2900823-5

Bloating
Constipation?

Food Intolerance?
Carbohydrate enzyme deficiencies (eg, lactase and sucrase),
many artificial sweeteners (eg, sugar alcohols and sorbitol),
Celiac Disease
congenital sucrose isomaltase deficiency (CSID) given triggers rich in sucrose and starchy meals

Alarm Sx. Vomitting, Weight Loss, GI Bleeding, Nasuea/Pain - EGD

SIBO?
Visceral Hypersensitive vs Abdominophrenic dyssnergia


Gastroparesis:
Metoclopramide is the only FDA-approved medication for gastroparesis. Metoclopramide is a dopamine antagonist; it targets both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. Minor side effects include insomnia, restlessness, agitation, and akathisia. These generally resolve with cessation of the drug and/or use of diphenhydramine. Major side effects are uncommon but include tardive dyskinesia (FDA black box warning), depression, and prolongation of the QT interval.
Relamorelin is a selective ghrelin agonist that can reduce symptoms like nausea, fullness, bloating, and abdominal pain, as well as accelerate gastric emptying in individuals with diabetic gastroparesis but it is not FDA-approved.
Prucalopride is a highly selective 5-HT4 receptor agonist. By stimulating serotonin receptors in the GI tract, it accelerates gastrointestinal transit. It was approved by the FDA in December 2018 for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation. Prucalopride has been studied in patients with gastroparesis and accelerates gastric emptying, but it is not FDA-approved for the treatment of gastroparesis. 

IBS-D
She has not yet completed a trial of scheduled loperamide, typically 2 mg scheduled 45 minutes prior to meals
Colestipol could be used for patients with IBS-D and histories of cholecystectomy or right hemicolectomy prone to bile-salt diarrhea, but conservative measures including a trial of scheduled loperamide should be tried first.
Alosetron can be used in patients with refractory irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D), who have failed conservative therapies.
Eluxadoline, while approved for IBS-D, should not be used in this case, or in patients at risk for pancreatitis.


The presence of continuous or nearly continuous abdominal pain with only occasional relation to physiologic events (like eating and defecation) where pain limits daily functioning and is not explained by the other structural disorders (MALS) as described below, confirms a diagnosis of centrally mediated abdominal pain syndrome (CAPS).!!
https://www.gastrojournal.org/action/showPdf?pii=S0016-5085%2816%2900225-0


congenital sucrose isomaltase deficiency (CSID) given triggers rich in sucrose and starchy meals and mild cases are often not diagnosed until later in childhood or early adulthood.

EGD with duodenal biopsies for disaccharidase activity testing
